[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The whole universe consists
of vibration, we can say,
different clusters, different
patterns of vibration.
The galaxies have their
own vibration pattern.
An amoeba has its own
vibration pattern.
A mouse has.
And so do we, individually
and collectively.
So there's this great
insight that is coming.
We individually are a
pattern of vibration
in this Akashic field
in the total pattern
of the universal vibration.
And this particular pattern
is there to give us viability.
We would not be
here, we could not
have been here unless we
were attuned to this pattern.
And when I am in
touch with that,
when I am one with that
vibrational aspect which
is there in the universe,
then I'm healthy.
So this gives us a new
concept of health and disease.
It's not so new that it
will be unprecedented,
because the ancient wisdom
traditions talked about this.
But being aligned to something
that is there in the universe,
that is produced in the
universe independently
of us, which is already there,
that is the great challenge.
Define then health, being
healthy, being attuned,
aligned with, governed by,
being one with all of these,
with that vibration, pattern
of vibration in the universe.
This is information medicine,
very different from the concept
of classical medicine,
not the old classical,
but the new, modern medicine.
Very different from what
is being practiced now,
which is biochemical medicine.
We would say that the
biochemistry of the body
is something that
expresses this pattern.
When we are well-aligned, then
the biochemistry works, then
the organs work, the cells work.
They're all functional.
When we are not
well-aligned, then there
is a flaw in this information.
And it's expressed in
a poor biochemistry,
in a poor relationship of
the cells to each other
through the organs.
Even the cell has a
program, now we recognize.
And in fact, the new medicine
is programming medicine,
is information programming.
That is the cure for many,
many diseases, perhaps
all, Because when we are
one with this pattern,
then all the
information is flowing.
And when we are not, then
some blockages appear.
Now, it's interesting that you
can talk about local blockages.
Something is wrong locally.
But you don't realize--
I think we mentioned
this already--
that that local is
part of the whole.
You can't break open the human
system or any living system,
probably any complex system.
You can't make just
one part whole.
You have to do the whole.
Whatever you do interacts
with the whole system.
So a very different concept
from standard medical practice,
which takes one thing at a time.
The problem is, let's
say, your liver.
And then you work
on your liver, never
mind the lungs or the heart.
Here, every part-- the new
realization, every part
is interacting with
every other part
so that we are a
non-decomposable whole system.
That is the standard
good expert expression.
Decomposability means
that you can take apart
the system and work
on the part and then
you put it together again.
There are certain
mechanical systems
that we create that
are decomposable.
A bicycle is decomposable.
You can take the steering
rod or the pedal.
And if it doesn't work well,
doesn't run well, doesn't turn,
then fix it.
You put it back
and it works again.
You can't take an
organ from an organism
and try to fix it and
put it back again.
These are whole systems.
And every part of
it is interacting
with every other part.
And all together are dedicated
to this sole basic task,
maintain the system in its
current state of life, living.
Every system, if
it's not living,
if it's not dynamic,
biological, sociobiological,
sociopsychobiological system,
it turns to this lowest level
of equilibrium.
It goes back to the basic,
just becomes balanced,
but at the lowest level.
And then life is not possible
at that lowest level.
Sure death is to
return to equilibrium
in the physical sense.
Every part, every cell
returns to its bottom state,
ground state.
But they don't work together.
To be alive means
to be constantly
out of this bottom equilibrium
and in a dynamic balance,
where things work together.
The system in which we
live, the human system,
as all living systems, is
an open, dynamic system.
Open means that the system
is available to flows,
is transitory to flows of
energy, meta, or information.
By meta, I don't mean
something metaphysical.
At this point I just
mean the substances
that flow through it.
Every time we take a breath,
we take in oxygen. Every time
we eat a sandwich,
we take in protein.
It's all coming in.
It's being digested,
being processed.
It's going out again.
And we are a flow.
We are a flow just the same way
as a candle is a flow process.
When we light it, that flame
eats through the candle,
goes through the
candle, and transforms
the light into heat,
and then into the oxygen
process, which melts the candle
and converts it into light,
so a flow process, in which
we are a transitory pattern.
Now, that pattern
who we are has to be
related to the pattern
which is there in nature.
So to put it in simple
terms, we healthy human--
normal, let's say, human
beings are a pattern
which is aligned with
the global pattern, which
reflects our health,
which gives us our health.
Once we are healthy,
we are one with nature.
That's the current expression
for it, being one with nature.
Very, very different
from the medical practice
of these days, where it says
if something is not right,
doesn't work right, you
change the biochemistry.
If that doesn't work, you
excise it, if you can,
and then you kill it.
Take for example what happens
with cancer, which is perhaps
the most horrendous disease.
If there's any part,
these tumors show up,
then the standard practice
is try to kill those cells.
If you can't fully
kill them, excise them.
Operate on the
organism, take it out.
Then of course, they are dead,
they are out of the organism.
And then you hope that
the organism recovers.
Sometimes it does.
Often it does not,
because what is wrong
here is the whole
orientation, the whole dynamic
of the organism.
It's not being guided
by the pattern which
is there in nature.
To return to nature, we
have to re-code ourselves.
We have to open up our antenna.
Now, this can be done in
many very different ways.
You can ask, how did
they always do it?
Traditional societies were
healthier on the whole
than we are.
They lived more in nature.
So one thing that we
are discovering today,
and there's very good
medical evidence for this,
people who spend
more time in nature
are less prone to disease.
They are healthier.
Something that is
ancient practice
is now being rediscovered,
for example the forest walk.
The forest walk, just get into
a forest and try to walk around
and feel yourself
part of that forest.
And it turns out that people
who do that regularly, they
are healthier and
less prone to disease.
Now, forests very
often, unfortunately,
in our day and age are not
available to everybody.
And when they are
available, sometimes they
are not pristine
forests anymore.
So we have to compensate.
That means medicine can
come in as an active force
re-establishing our
contact with nature.
It would be ideal if we could
just all get out to nature
and feel ourselves
being part of nature,
relax, meditate, talk to
each other or to ourselves,
and feel nature in
every part of our body.
That would be ideal.
We can't always do that.
And when there are
diseases already
shown up, when already has
been this disconnected--
this disconnect,
then you need to do
some more active measures.
Now, there are things
that we can do.
And there is a modern
branch of medicine
which is based on
energy and information.
It's called energy medicine
or information medicine.
Let me tell you an experience
or a new development
about information
medicine that I
have been involved with in a
modest way, because I suggested
some treatment along these
lines and it turned out
that this treatment works.
What is the mission?
What is the task?
The task is to align the
programming of the cells
in the organism in such a
way that work coherently.
Let's think about for one moment
this term again, coherence.
When the organism is
healthy, then it's coherent.
And by coherence, we
mean that every cell
is programmed to
coherent functioning,
complementary functioning,
contact with every other cell.
Every organ is tuned
to every other organ,
so the whole system
works as one system,
which is healthy and whole.
The idea was on this particular
discovery to ask when,
at what point in the
life of an organism
is this information really
accessible, really there,
full information on which the
organism runs, full contact
with this pattern in nature?
And the answer is, at the
very beginning of life.
In a complex system,
it's the embryo.
In the embryo, in the
very first phases,
when the cells of the
embryo multiply from 2 to 4
to 8 to 16, 32, and so on,
they don't really change yet,
but they multiply.
And at that point,
the full information
of the mother organism
is present in the embryo.
When organs start forming,
then that information
is no longer fully present,
because then the cells, which
up until then were capable
of developing, evolving
into any cell in the organism,
all the possibilities
are there--
it's called totipotent,
total potency of the cells.
Any one cell can become any
other cell in the organism.
Once the organs have
formed, then the cells--
some of these cells have
become multi-potent.
That means there can be
some of the other cells,
but not all anymore.
So the full information
is not there.
So let's think of
the full information
before the organs are generated.
First thing to note is
that in the laboratory,
when you inject into that
embryo in that primary phase--
inject a virus that has cancer
and cancer information into it,
it doesn't take.
The embryo simply
doesn't pick up cancer.
Apparently, it won't pick
up other diseases as well.
The experiments were
specifically on cancer.
Now, how do you access this?
You should take some
part of that embryo
at that particular
early phase and make
it available to a
sick human being.
Why is that likely to work?
It is very likely to work
because at that point
the cells become normal
cells, differentiate
into normal healthy cells
of a coming organism,
of a developing organism.
And we have many cells
like this in our body.
They are known as stem
cells, the original cells.
Out of the stem cells
come differentiation
in the organism.
The organism is
formed of these cells.
Now, when the embryo
starts differentiating,
what it does is the
same thing that a stem
cell in the human
body needs to do,
differentiate to
become a normal cell.
If that stem cell
is in the bone,
it has to become a bone cell.
If it is in the brain, it has
to become a brain cell, and so
on in the whole organism.
150 or more different kinds
of cells, and the stem cells
are capable of differentiating
into any one of these.
Now, if you get this
information from the embryo
of another organism.
Then we can induce the stem
cells to become normal cells.
If they were malignant,
if they were mutant,
then the cells get
reprogrammed and differentiate
into normal cells.
There's another alternative.
If they can't be reprogrammed,
they undergo cell death.
It's known as apoptosis.
And these cells die off.
So if you have a tumor, for
example, the cells in the tumor
either die off,
leave the organism,
or they become
normal cells, which
is the ideal cure for cancer.
It is very different
from taking the cells
and killing it and hoping
that another cell will
come in its place.
Here, you reprogram the cells.
Where can you get
this information?
You have to get it
from another organism.
It would be beautiful
if you could get it
from a human embryo,
maybe not so beautiful,
because you would
damage the embryo if you
start extracting cells from it.
But it's not possible.
There are too many defenses
built into this system.
It will probably kill the
mother organism in the process.
So I said to my friends
the researchers, let's try
to go down the
scale of evolution
and see where you can
find an embryo where
this differentiation
process is such that it
will work in the human being.
So we went down the scale.
And you know where
they found it?
They found it in a tiny fish.
It's known as the zebrafish.
The zebrafish has
some advantages,
because it has been
very thoroughly studied.
They know exactly how it
develops to the second
or to the millisecond
practically,
how it starts to differentiate
and make another zebrafish
and how the embryo develops and
what happens at the given time.
What happens is a
constant dialogue
between that developing organism
and the mother, the mother
fish in this case.
And this is true of any embryo.
Between the mother and
the developing organism,
there is a constant
inflow, a dialogue.
Constantly the mother is
producing information.
It's being processed in
the cell, in the embryo,
and then in the fetus,
and then in the more
fully developed organism.
And from this information,
we can extract that element
which can induce the
stem cells in our body
or any sick body,
any other body,
to differentiate and
become normal cells.
Sounds fabulous.
It is.
It works actually.
That's why it's fabulous.
The zebrafish has 95% the
same DNA as a human being.
It's not known, but
practically all organisms,
living organisms on this planet
have basically the same set
of DNAs.
What is different
is not the DNA,
because that's the
genetic system.
What the difference is is
in the epigenetic system.
And that's another incredible
discovery the last few years.
This system is the
key to why we are here
and why the universe is
here, because it orders
the vibrations in such a
way that every element is
consistent, coherent
with every other element.
It's an information
management system operating
in the living organism.
The DNA is like the
keys of an instrument.
In themselves, the instrument
doesn't produce the music.
The keys are there
to produce the music,
but they don't in themselves.
What produces the music is the
way the keys are depressed,
the keys are operated.
Think of a piano.
You have to play that.
Or a violin, you have to play
it so as to have the music.
But just by themselves,
they're just they're.
What plays the
music, what creates
the music is the
epigenetic system.
This epigenetic
system is what makes
the difference between a
healthy organism and a sick one.
It activates given genes.
It suppresses given genes.
It makes them work.
It makes them pause.
It's what works so that the
living system is not just
a genetic system,
but a genetic system
governed by an
epigenetic system.
And what information
does is interacts
with the epigenetic system.
So we get this information
from the zebrafish.
It interacts with
the epigenetic system
of another organism, which
can be a human being suffering
from cancer, let's say.
And that information activates
the genes in such a way
that they differentiate,
that they produce
a differentiation in the cells.
We are a complex system, where
the epigenetic system governs
the whole
instrumentation of genes.
And the genes then
govern actually
what is happening to the system.
It's interesting that this
particular substance--
it has a complex name
from the zebrafish,
stem cell
differentiating factors.
What it does is differentiates
the cells of the embryo
and the stem cells in
the body in such a way
that they create a
healthy organism.
So again, just as
the other day we
talked about being part of a
deeper level of information
in the universe,
so our health is
originating at a deeper level.
We create this deeper
level by being part of it.
And we can access that by
having a substance that
conveys to us that level.
It turns out, namely,
that in the very beginning
of this embryo process,
development process,
there is a substance,
a DNA attached
to each cell in the embryo,
which is called telomerase.
And this telomerase is
what enables the cell
to multiply, to
duplicate itself.
But every duplication cuts off
some parts of the telomerase.
So soon, relatively soon,
after a number of replications,
the cell can no
longer replicate.
That's why we are mortal,
because our cells stop
being able to replicate.
Now, imagine if
the cells wouldn't
stop replicating, if they
could continue to replicate.
It turns out that they can.
In fact, they do replicate
continuously and perfectly
in the laboratory already.
You can create stem cells that
maintain their property almost
indefinitely.
And the supplies of stem
cells, which are constantly
needed in the pharma
industry, are now
produced in several
laboratories by this method.
What does it?
It does that the same factor
that creates differentiation
in the cell also
maintains the cell
in this state of perfect
replication in principle.
So far it's in principle.
But it's perfectly possible to
translate this into practice.
Cells could become
immortal and organs
based on the cells,
and organ systems,
could become immortal if
there's nothing else interfering
with them.
The telomerase is not cut
off in the first phase
of the development
of the embryo.
This we know.
And now we also know that
through this extract,
this differentiation
factors injected
into this culture made
up of these cells,
the telomerase is not cut off.
The cells continue to multiply.
So you might say, are we on
the way to becoming immortal?
In principle we could.
But what is certainly
the case, we
could extend human
lifespan, healthy lifespan,
because the cells,
healthy cells,
would continue to act,
to be in the body,
and to function normally.
The limitation is
removed, not completely
because other things are in
the organism that interfere.
But in principle,
cells can continue
to be active in a healthy
way longer than before.
That's the bottom line.
And this soon will
become available.
So even if we don't become
immediately immortal,
we can live longer in a
healthy way than we did before.
This is probably as
fundamental as the phase
originally with the discovery
of the circulation of the blood,
for example.
It was not even so long
ago that this was not known
that the blood circulates.
It's a different kind
of a system, which
is based on this
constant input of oxygen
provided by the blood.
This is similarly a
groundbreaking discovery,
that information is
constantly produced,
inputted into the organism,
and produces a healthy system.
We can help.
We can help this natural flow
of not being so much in touch
with nature.
We can help it by medical means.
But informational medical
means, not just biochemical
means, and not surgical means.
We let nature do
what nature can do.
And we just help it.
We don't need to do the
artificial therapies that
up until now have
dominated medicine.
This is now becoming available
for certain diseases,
tumoral diseases, yes;
neurodegenerative diseases
also, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's,
multiple sclerosis,
all of these.
We can show because the
clinical tests show this.
We can show, for example,
with ultrasound methods how
tumors that at one point in
the liver just was taking over,
growing, growing, starts
stopping growth, start
degenerating.
And after several weeks,
the tumors disappear.
The liver becomes healthy again.
So it's not just imagination.
We have the clinical tests.
And that means a deeper
cause is at work here,
a deeper process, the
process that we are again
becoming part of
the universe, part
of the information on which
the universe runs, whether we
take a pill and let it
dissolve in our mouth
and help it like that, or we
walk in the forest or we swim
or we meditate,
become healthy again.
That's a new phase.
And it's a phase
that can correct
for the tremendously polluted,
tremendously misplaced
chemistry with which we are
over-flooding our environment.
That's the way for
internal health,
for organic health
based on information,
nature's information.
[MUSIC PLAYING]